## 1. Flight Information
Flight ID: 001

Date / Time: 2025-03-05 14:00 CST

Location: Balmorhea, TX, USA

Pilot in Command: Thomas Garrison

Flight Crew / Observers:

Aircraft Designation: Quiver PT1

## 2. Test Conditions
Weather Condition: 

Temperature: 18C

Wind Speed / Direction: 094 4kts

Humidity: 16%

Visibility: 10 sm

## 3. Test Aim / Procedure

### 3.1. Test Aim
This flight will be for the purpose of testing the radar altimeter, battery endurance, and further expanding the flight envelope.

### 3.2. Test Plan
- Enable harmonic notch filtering and attempt to improve the filter throughout the flights
- Take off in stabilized mode, switch to altitude hold mode. Evaluate radar altimeter performance.
- Evaluate battery endurance and measure voltage sag by checking the battery voltage on the ground every 2 min

## 4. Preflight Checklist
### 4.1. Airframe Inspection

- [x] Visual check (no cracks, loose fasteners, damage) 

- [x] Structural mounting points (battery, payload) secure

### 4.2. Propulsion / Power System

- [x] Propeller(s) securely fastened, free of damage

- [x] Battery charge adequate. Battery Voltage: 58.1V

### 4.3. Avionics / Electronics

- [x] Check all physical connections on the PCB and Pixhawk.

- [x] Contactor working smoothly

- [x] All pre-flight checks OK on the ground station.

- [x] RC remote & telemetry connections stable

### 4.4. Pilot Notes

- [x] Flight plan reviewed

- [x] IMSAFE 

## 5. Flight Test

### 5.1. Ground Run:
- Arm the vehicle
- Give 20% throttle input
- Observe the ground station for any errors, propellers are spinning with similar speeds in the right directions

- [x] No errors on ground station

- [x] Propellers spinning with similar speeds

- [x] Propellers spinning in the right directions

- [x] Battery charge adequate. Battery voltage after ground run: 

### 5.2. Flight Test:

**Leg 1**
- FFT Enabled, Harmonic notch not yet enabled
- First flight with radar altimeter

#### Flight Feeling & Observations
- I couldn't tell much of a difference in altitude hold or position hold with the radar altimeter to flights without it,
- It seemed like the aircraft descended when I moved it forward, this might have been due to the descending terrain.

#### Pilot Actions/Inputs
- Yaw input to correct initial instability
- Moderate pitch forward and back

#### Aircraft Behavior
- There was an initial yaw instability that resolved itself after the first few seconds of flight. (IMU MAG ground anomaly)
- The aircraft was stable and held position and altitude well

#### Flight Plan Achievement
- Successful flight with radar altimeter
- No apparent issues with FFT

#### Recommendations
- Enable hntch filtering on next flight
- Monitor any additional compass errors
- Continue testing with radar altimeter

#### Pixhawk Logs
[Log #75](./assets/001/logs/00000075.BIN)

#### Voltage Reading
- 56.26 (85% SOC)


**Leg 2**
- HNTCH filter enabled with FFT.
#### Flight Feeling & Observations
- The aircraft continued to handle well.
- No apparent differences with FFT enabled.

#### Pilot Actions/Inputs
- I gave more intense pitch and roll inputs

#### Aircraft Behavior
- It handled the increased movements well.
- It had some slight yaw instability in the beginning.

#### Flight Plan Achievement
- Expanded the flight envelope.

#### Recommendations
- Continue expanding the envelope.
- Monitor for additional yaw instability. Consider additional compass calibration.
- Review logs to evaluate possible improvements for the harmonic notch filter. Consider switching from one filter to three.

#### Pixhawk Logs
[Log #76](./assets/001/logs/00000076.BIN)

#### Voltage Reading
- 53.93 (71% SOC)


**Leg 3**
- Endurance test with stops every 2 min
- Before 4th Takeoff, changed EK3_RNG_USE_HGT to 2%

#### Aircraft Behavior
- Frequent yaw/compass issues

#### Flight Plan Achievement
- Changed parameters for showing current compensated voltage to GCS
- Battery drained to 50%, before we switched to a new pack.

#### Recommendations
- Perform compass calibration in flight
- Figure out how to generate SoC on Ardupilot by subtracting current data from known battery capacity
- Consider adjusting the threshold voltages in Ardupilot to better match the battery capacity

#### Pixhawk Logs
[Logs #77-80](./assets/001/logs/)


**Leg 4**
- In flight compass calibration
- COMPASS_LEARN = 3
- Will attempt figure 8 in altitude hold mode
- Various tests and manuevers for better compass data

#### Flight Feeling & Observations
- The figure 8 was difficult, I opted for gentler manuevers.

#### Pilot Actions/Inputs
- Generally takeoff in altitude hold mode, switch to position hold once stable
- Pilot gave abrupt throttle input on landing in position hold mode, resulting in a tip over.

#### Aircraft Behavior
- Compass offsets and inconsistencies in first few seconds of each flight
- Aircraft generally handling well once airborne

#### Flight Plan Achievement
- Completed in flight compass calibration, no improvements
- Tried a few iterations of maneuvering flights and using the [MAGFit tool](https://firmware.ardupilot.org/Tools/WebTools/MAGFit/) to adjust. Moderate improvements
- Damaged two propellers in a rough landing on final flight. Last flight used compass offsets generated from DCM attitude, which was far worse than the data from EKF attitude.

#### Recommendations
- Test the aircraft in a different location in case the current test site is contributing to the compass issues. The iPhone compass app also can be a bit unreliable at this test site. Magnetic interference could be caused by the large metal building of buried power lines.

#### Pixhawk Logs
- Log #81 Misc inputs
- Log #82 Short flight in stabilized mode
- Log #83 In flight compass calibration
- Log #84 has a full yaw 360.
- Log #85 Test with new compass offsets generated from previous flight
- Log #86 has the best data for MAGFit. We gave all pitch and roll inputs at 45 degree offsets.
- Log #87 has a flight with the offsets generated from previous flight
- Log #88 has a flight with the offsets generated from flight #86, but using DCM attitude instead of EKF
[Logs Here](./assets/001/logs/)

#### Voltage Reading
- Misc, battery swapped.
