## 1. Flight Information
Flight ID: 002

Date / Time: 2025-03-09 13:30 CST

Location: Balmorhea, TX, USA

Pilot in Command: Thomas Garrison

Flight Crew / Observers:

Aircraft Designation: Quiver PT1

## 2. Test Conditions
Weather Condition: Clear

Temperature: 12C

Wind Speed / Direction: 354 8kts

Humidity: 28%

Visibility: 10sm

## 3. Test Aim / Procedure

### 3.1. Test Aim
These flight tests will be for further testing the compass and hopefully fixing the persistent issues.

### 3.2. Test Plan
- Conduct a few test flights to evaluate compass performance and stability.
- If practical, use the MAGFit tool to adjust the offsets.

## 4. Preflight Checklist
### 4.1. Airframe Inspection

- [x] Visual check (no cracks, loose fasteners, damage) 

- [x] Structural mounting points (battery, payload) secure

[Photos from the airframe](./assets/002/images/)

### 4.2. Propulsion / Power System

- [x] Propeller(s) securely fastened, free of damage

- [x] Battery charge adequate. Battery Voltage:

### 4.3. Avionics / Electronics

- [x] Check all physical connections on the PCB and Pixhawk.

- [x] Contactor working smoothly

- [x] All pre-flight checks OK on the ground station.

- [x] RC remote & telemetry connections stable

### 4.4. Pilot Notes

- [x] Flight plan reviewed

- [x] IMSAFE 
 
Anything missing on the aircraft, anything that doesn't feel right

- Aircraft seems in a good condition. Damaged propellers have been replaced.

## 5. Flight Test

### 5.1. Ground Run:
- Arm the vehicle
- Give 20% throttle input
- Observe the ground station for any errors, propellers are spinning with similar speeds in the right directions

- [x] No errors on ground station

- [x] Propellers spinning with similar speeds

- [x] Propellers spinning in the right directions

- [x] Battery charge adequate. Battery voltage after ground run: 

### 5.2. Flight Test:

**Leg 1**
- Perform ground run in stabilized mode to evaluate compass and new propellers
- Take off in stabilized mode, monitor compass.
- If stable, switch to position hold mode.
- Perform gentle manuevers to evaluate aircraft.

#### Flight Feeling & Observations
- Compasses were inaccurate and inconsistent upon booting up the drone. Stabilized after performing a manual calibration.
- The drone started vibrating a lot on the ground run, like it hit a resonant frequency.

#### Pilot Actions/Inputs
- Performed a takeoff in stabilized mode, switched to position hold once airborne.
- Gave small yaw inputs and attempted to fly the aircraft forward.

#### Aircraft Behavior
- The aircraft reported EKF and compass issues upon takeoff and during the flight.
- When I flew the aircraft forward, it descended to follow the steep drop in terrain, this wasn't desireable to me.

#### Flight Plan Achievement
- Validated aircraft performance after prior mishap flight
- Learned new radar altimeter behavior

#### Recommendations
- Verify compass offsets are set to the latest calculated values.
- Review radar altimeter parameters.

#### Pixhawk Logs
[Log #89](./assets/002/logs/00000089.BIN)

#### Voltage Reading
- 54.8V after flight

**Leg 2**
- Updated mag offset parameters to latest calculated version. It's possible that I forgot to write the update last time.
- Updated RNGFND1_RMETRIC to 0
- Updated RNGFND1_GNDCLEAR to 39cm, reflecting value showing on ground.
- Rebooted Pixhawk
- For this flight, evaluate compass performance and attempt to do a figure eight for MAGFit data.

#### Flight Feeling & Observations
- Heading was incorrect upon boot, manual calibration performed.
- Lots of compass and EKF errors during flight
- The aircraft seemed stable and controllable
- The landing in position hold mode seemed smoother than previous flights.

#### Pilot Actions/Inputs
- Switched in position hold mode.
- Performed a full 360 of yaw in clockwise and counterclockwise directions.

#### Flight Plan Achievement
- Likely improvements in radar altimeter behavior.
- Got some data for MAGFit.

#### Recommendations
- Use data from this flight in MAGFit to improve compass calibration.

#### Pixhawk Logs
[Log #90](./assets/002/logs/00000090.BIN)

#### Voltage Reading
- 54.17V

**Leg 3**
The MAGFit tool suggested that we had the compass orientation set incorrectly and that it should be "yaw270". During the last flight tests I assumed this was an error, but I actually confirmed that it was correct with the [documentation](https://docs.holybro.com/gps-and-rtk-system/f9p-h-rtk-series/ardupilot-ist8310-compass-orientation) from Holybro. I will update that parameter for this flight.

- I will conduct a short flight to evaluate the update compass orientation.

#### Flight Feeling & Observations
- While not perfectly accurate, initial heading on boot was much closer to actual heading.
- The compass performed *much* better during the flight.

#### Pilot Actions/Inputs
- Test inputs in all directions

#### Aircraft Behavior
- The aircraft was noticeably easier to control.
- The radar altimeter was reporting a different ground altitude. This isn't too surprising since the altimeter is designed for a minimum range of 50cm.

#### Flight Plan Achievement
- Solved the persistent compass issues!
- Recorded second flight

#### Recommendations
- Fly some figure eights and further refine the compass offsets to increase performance.
- Consider a different rangefinder for future hardware.

#### Pixhawk Logs
[Log #91](./assets/002/logs/00000091.BIN)
[Log #92](./assets/002/logs/00000092.BIN)
