## 1. Flight Information
Flight ID: 003

Date / Time: 2025-03-10 19:00 CST

Location: Balmorhea, TX, USA

Pilot in Command: Thomas Garrison

Flight Crew / Observers:

Aircraft Designation: Quiver PT1

## 2. Test Conditions
Weather Condition: Clear

Temperature: 20C

Wind Speed / Direction: 216 5kts (or less, it felt calm)

Humidity: 6%

Visibility: 10sm

## 3. Test Aim / Procedure

### 3.1. Test Aim
This test will be for improve the PID tuning of the aircraft.

### 3.2. Test Plan
- Use the Ardupilot autotune feature to calculate new gains.
- Test the new gains.

## 4. Preflight Checklist
### 4.1. Airframe Inspection

- [x] Visual check (no cracks, loose fasteners, damage) 

- [x] Structural mounting points (battery, payload) secure

[Photos from the airframe](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1-J-v3CNvccod277BNc3jUZg6o0MuejAy?usp=drive_link)

### 4.2. Propulsion / Power System

- [x] Propeller(s) securely fastened, free of damage

- [x] Battery charge adequate. Battery Voltage: 55.9V

### 4.3. Avionics / Electronics

- [x] Check all physical connections on the PCB and Pixhawk.

- [x] Contactor working smoothly

- [x] All pre-flight checks OK on the ground station.

- [x] RC remote & telemetry connections stable

### 4.4. Pilot Notes

- [x] Flight plan reviewed

- [x] IMSAFE 
 
Anything missing on the aircraft, anything that doesn't feel right

- All seems good. I've just installed the new landing gear legs.

## 5. Flight Test

### 5.1. Ground Run:
- Arm the vehicle
- Give 20% throttle input
- Observe the ground station for any errors, propellers are spinning with similar speeds in the right directions

- [x] No errors on ground station

- [x] Propellers spinning with similar speeds

- [x] Propellers spinning in the right directions

- [x] Battery charge adequate.

### 5.2. Flight Test:

**Leg ID 1**
- Take off in position hold mode
- Once stable, switch to autotune mode and monitor the process
- Test the new tune once complete.

#### Flight Feeling & Observations
- The aircraft had a lot of yaw instability on takeoff. This is most likely due to setting an incorrect initial heading - my fault. There weren't any EKF or compass issues during the flight.
- The autotune was interesting to watch and seemed to go well.

#### Pilot Actions/Inputs
- I gave enough throttle to allow the aircraft to settle out the initial instability.
- I was monitoring during the autotune but gave no inputs.
- I gave a few small test inputs with the new gains and they seemed decent.

#### Aircraft Behavior
- The new gains seemed much more responsive. Further testing will be required to give a proper assessment.
- The aircraft **crashed on landing**, rolling upside down. Crash report below.

#### Flight Plan Achievement
- Successful autotune flight, pending further review and testing.
- Structural test of aircraft in a rollover on landing.

#### Recommendations
- Repair the aircraft
- Once airworthy, extensively test the new gains.

#### Pixhawk Logs
[Log #93](./assets/003/logs/00000093.BIN)

#### Voltage Reading
- 50.8V (39% SOC) after flight

## Crash Report

#### Summary

Before the flight, I attached four new landing feet but did not securely fasten them with bolts or set screws. They seemed securely attached and I planned to permanently attach them if they performed well on the flight.

Aside from some instability on takeoff, the flight went as expected. The wind was calm and the aircraft flew for about 10 minutes.

Shortly before the completion of the autotune, the ground station reported "Bad Battery" due to low voltage. From prior experience, I knew that the battery actually still had some capacity left but I attempted to land very quickly once the autotune was complete.

Once the autotune was complete, I switched the mode out of Autotune, and then back into Autotune to test the new gains. I then attempted to land in Autotune mode to save the new gains.

Upon touching down, the aircraft quickly flipped forward and stopped upside down. The ground control station lost connection to the aircraft after landing.

After the crash, I found the aircraft had lost power and suffered moderate damage. There was no damage to the test site or injury to any participants.

#### Contributing Factors

- The battery was not completely charged before starting the flight, leading to the battery warning and a rushed landing.

- The new landing feet were not securely attached, and they may have rotated or shifted in flight contributing to the rollover on landing.

- The new landing feet were being tested on the same flight leg as the autotune, and my focus wasn't on the landing with the complicated autotune flight.

- This was the last calm winds day of the week and I was rushing to complete the Autotune test while I had the favorable conditions.

- It was near the end of daylight and I was rushing to complete the flight before sunset.

- The new gains could have resulted in unpredictable behavior on landing.

- Autotune flight mode is less forgiving in a rough landing than stabilized flight mode.

- **Due to the rushed landing, I did not let the aircraft become completely still over the ground prior to touching down, and the forward momentum greatly contributed to the rollover on landing.**

#### Damage

Upon initial visual inspection the following damage was found:

- Two propellers were broken, the other two seem undamaged.

- The 3D printed latch for the battery clip was broken.

- Both GPS antennas were detached from their mounts and one of the mounts was broken.

- One of the CAN cables connecting the Pixhawk to the radar altimeter was broken.

- The mounting arm for the brush bullet dispenser was broken near the attachment interface. The wiring harness for the brush bullet dispenser was also damaged.

The battery enclosure, motors, arms, and other structural components appeared undamaged. Full inspection and tests will be required prior to next flight.

#### Improvements for future tests

- Only test one change at a time. The landing feet test should have been conducted separately and in stabilized mode to minimize the risk on landing.

- Start with a fully charged battery before a flight of unknown duration.

- Abort the flight and land as soon as practical if there are any errors on the ground control station.

- Don't worry about saving the Autotune gains by landing in the Autotune flight mode, they can be retrieved separately from the logs.

- Consider redesigning the landing feet to have rotational symmetry so that it will behave in the same way even if it rotates in flight.

- Consider setting up a low altitude reliable rangefinder for more precise automatic landings.

- Improve battery monitoring on the ground control station so that the pilot can make an accurate risk assessment.

- **Ensure that there is no momentum across the ground before landing the drone.**

#### Media
A recording of the flight and photos after the crash can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1-8pTU0Ayv84jdLYfo3R9gGegwkOLh2Yf?usp=drive_link).
